Hiragana is Japan's version of the alphabet. It's one of three Japanese writing systems you need to learn in order to read Japanese.
The other two are katakana and kanji, but hiragana is where everything starts. 

Being able to read hiragana is a must for most beginner Japanese textbooks and resources. 
It's the first thing you learn in a traditional classroom. I agree with many others—it’s a great place to start.

Most Japanese classrooms spend a whole month learning how to read and write hiragana. 
That’s a bit too long! Instead of writing out each hiragana character over and over to memorize them, use the guide below. This way, you could be reading hiragana by tonight.

This guide uses mnemonics and worksheets to help you learn and remember hiragana faster than you might think.
Learning hiragana is like building the foundation for the rest of your Japanese learning. 
By mastering hiragana, you'll get a good grasp of how Japanese pronunciation works. Plus, 
it will unlock many Japanese resources for you. There are no (good) Japanese textbooks or learning tools that don’t require hiragana. 
It’s really the first step to learning Japanese.
Many people spend months learning hiragana, but that’s too long! You should be able to learn everything in a couple of days. 
A week at most. Some people have even reported being able to read all the hiragana after just a few hours with this method.
How long it takes depends on you, but if you follow the steps below, you’ll be able to read hiragana in no time. To make this happen, you'll use a few key methods. Let’s start!

Mnemonics: Due to hiragana's relative simplicity (at least compared to kanji), image-based mnemonics are a perfect method for memorization. 
Each hiragana character has a memorable illustration that goes along with it. For a long time I believed that mnemonics were a waste of time.
If this is you, I recommend you give it a serious try. It's amazing what you are able to memorize when using a mnemonic method.

No Writing: "WHAT? NO WRITING!?" you scream. I know what you're thinking. But, think about it for a moment. 
When's the last time you actually wrote something by hand? Probably the last time you had to sign your name on a receipt at a restaurant. 
The need to write by hand is going down. Most of your written communication comes in the form of typing. 
Learning to read can be done very quickly and is very useful. 
Learning to write doubles or triples how long it takes to learn hiragana, with very little real-life benefit.
It will be important to learn eventually, but for now you have more important fish to fry.

Exercises: After studying each column of hiragana, there are exercises for you to go through to review what you've just learned. 
They also happen to be very well thought out, too. If you do them, and you don't cheat (yourself), you will learn hiragana.
In these exercises, you should do your best to force yourself recall items, even when you don't think you can come up with the answer.
The more effort and strain you put into recalling something, the stronger of a memory your brain will end up building (as long as you actually recall it, that is).
